# Kasm on Kubernetes

Kasm has been modified to run inside Kubernetes. The service containers will automatically detect they are running in Kubernetes and they will talk directly to each other rather than assume they are talking through an NGINX server as is the case for a normal Kasm deployment. Additionally, components need to talk to the name of the service defined, not to individual containers. A Kubernetes service has a resolvable DNS name that all containers should be able to talk with. API containers will not talk to an individual rdp gateway or guac container, but rather be load balanced to all existing respective containers. The reverse is also true. The API servers have been modified to only return a single entry when guac or rdp gateways call to get a list of API servers. 

## Current Limitations/Work Remaining

The following limitations are still be worked out.
1. The RDP Gateway component provides native RDP proxying for RDP clients. It is currently not exposed and would require 3389 to be defined in the ingress. We are currently working on an update that will support RDP over HTTPS, which is supported by most RDP clients. Therefore, this will not be required in the future.
2. Container based agents need to be external to Kubernetes. We are currently working on Kubevirt autoscaling. A kubernetes native agent would be needed to provide container desktops/apps and that is not currently being worked at this time.


## Helm

A helm chart is used to deploy Kasm. This project contains examples of deployments, there is a sub directory for each deployment example. For example, `kasm-single-zone`, contains a simple single zone deployment of Kasm.

### Prerequisites

**Create the Namespace**

```bash
kubectl create ns kasm-helm --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

**Docker Hub Login**
If you are using private images in Docker Hub, you will need to login. Substitute with your creds.

```bash
kubectl create secret docker-registry regcred --docker-server="https://index.docker.io/v2/" --docker-username "username" --docker-password="dckr_pat_xxxxxxxxxxx" --docker-email="user@mail.com" --namespace="kasm-helm"
```

**Edit values.yaml**
1. Change the namespace variable if desired.
2. Add `host` values in a list for the resolvable hostnames and certificate registration values.
3. Set the imagePullSecrets name from the `Docker Hub Login` stage above if Docker login is required
4. Set the desired imagePullPolicy
5. Set the number of replicas for each pod - default values are recommended
6. Configure certificates. There are 2 required certificates - one for the Ingress proxy and another for the RDP Gateway
  - Set Kubernetes resource name of the certificate
  - Set the `create` value to true or false to have Helm create the resource for you
  - If you already have a pre-created certificate/key pair, then paste those values over the comments for cert/key values. If you set `create` to true, these values will be uploaded to your K8s culster and attached to resources as necessary.
7. Configure Kasm passwords. If these values are left blank, Helm will automatically set them for you. If you are running a `helm upgrade` of this deployment, Helm will reuse any password values that already exist in the location of the secrets generated by this helm chart.

### Deploy
The following will deploy Kasm in a single zone configuration.

```bash
helm install --replace kasmdemo kasm-single-zone
```

## Manually generate certs for deployment:

> **NOTE:** If you manually run the steps below, make sure to set the `create` value in the certs to `false` so Helm doesn't attempt to change or overwrite your existing certs.

**Create Secrets**
Before you can deploy the helm chart, you must create the required secrets, substitute the namespace name if you have changed it in the values.yaml file.

```bash
# Create a cert and create secret, change hostname and IP as needed
HOST=matt.dev.kasmweb.net openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout keyfile.key -out certfile.crt -sha256 -days 365 -nodes -extensions san -config \
  <(echo "[req]";
    echo distinguished_name=req;
    echo "[san]";
    echo subjectAltName=DNS:$HOST,IP:8.67.53.09
    ) \
    -subj "/C=US/O=KASM/CN=$HOST" &> /dev/null
kubectl create secret tls nginx-ingress-cert --namespace "kasm-helm" --key keyfile.key --cert certfile.crt

# Create a cert for the RDP proxy component
openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 1825 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout rdpproxy.key -out rdpproxy.crt -subj "/C=US/ST=VA/L=None/O=None/OU=DoFu/CN=$(hostname)/emailAddress=none@none.none"
kubectl create secret tls rdp-proxy-cert --namespace "kasm-helm" --key rdpproxy.key --cert rdpproxy.crt
```
